We created a simple blockchain where blocks are
stringed together utilizing SHA256 hashes.
I modified our code to include additional comments, it's best practice.
I wanted to take time to prepare you for some challenges ahead.
One of those challenges is persisting the dataset.
At this point in time,
your blockchain remains a memory with the chain array.
Upon restart of your node project,
the data state does not persist. Let me show you.
Let's navigate back to our terminal session to install level using Node Package Manager.
So, we're going to type in npm for Node Package Manager,
install, level is our package dependency for this project,
and then we want to go ahead and do --save for our flag to
save this package dependency within our package.json project file.
Great. We have LevelDB-wrapper installed.
A prepared levelSandbox.js which is located as a resource for you to review.
Let's walk through it. We need and not require our project dependency called level.
Next, we establish our storage location for the dataset,
and then we could figure db as an object to reference to level
with our chainDB which is the location of our dataset.
We created a new function to add data to LevelDB with a key value pair.
Our next function, we get data from LevelDB utilizing the key,
and finally we addDataToLevelDB utilizing a value.
This is a helpful function that loops through the key value dataset
utilizing the createReadStream on data that loops through,
and once in the loop has closed,
it adds data utilizing the addLevelDBData function with the key and the data's value.
We can test using a self-invoking function.
I created one here as an example.
The self-invoking function has been defined as theLoop.
We have a timeout configured that set for 100 milliseconds.
This loops for 10 times.
Feel free to test.
Test by copying your code,
going back into a node environment, pasting your code,
and sure enough, new blocks were added,
and then on the left-hand side,
we have our chaindata where our dataset is being stored.
To recap, we went through simple.js and we just added some comments to our code.
Next, we've went through levelSandbox.js.
LevelSandbox.js is just one means of expressing
the power of LevelDB as a key value data store to persist our data state.